and it was in the following year that Essiahs my lord died.

He was banished to the Isle of the Dead. There where the gods decreed that that mad and the mindless should dwell, until their mortal shells finally released their tortured souls. 
Noone ever returned from the Isle of the Dead. All feared the evil spirits and the souls of the dead which inhabited the Isle of the Dead.

In this time, the cowardly Hook had gained control of the Tribe of the Debh'Ops. 
His lies and his cowardice were hidden from the Tribe but they sapped the strength and determination from every warrior of the Debh'Ops, 
until each man stood his watch on the parapets like a wraith, patrolling without sight, 
so that the borders of the tribe were penetrated time and time again unseen by human eye, 
and the defenses of the tribe were underminded and weakened. 
The proud warriors fought amongst each other, baffled and confused, 
unable to trust even their right hand man in the shield wall (in the shield wall, the right side of each man is protected by the shield of the next man - thus it is said that one shall trust ones "Right Hand Man").
Not a man of the tribe knew where the enemy stood, not a man knew where to place his trust, not a man knew where or how he could best be of use to the tribe. the omens were dark, and the dreams of the warriors were filled with doom and blood.  
In this time many warriors felt the need to leave the tribe to pursue their personal quests, and though they left behind a weakened force, they were recognised as heroes. 

The Queen of the Debh'Ops, Beddina the North Woman, had struggled to uphold the laws and traditions of the tribe despite the work of the Hook, and she had bravely placed herself in danger, a pillar of strength and wisdom, 
upholding the laws and traditions of the tribe whilst attempting to protect the tribe against the weakness and vulnerability that the Hook engendered and allowed.  
At last, even her strength and righteousness could no longer stand against the iniquities of the Hook, 
and she was forced to relinquish her role as queen of the tribe.  
First she was relegated to an honorary position within the Brotherhood of the Net, 
but finally her willpower was broken and she relinquished all rights and honours within the tribe,
choosing a life of solitude and exile rather than succumb to the lies and deciets of the Hook and his allies. 

Essiahs languished in exile on the Isle of the Dead. The laws and traditions of the land decreed that those possessed by evil spirits, or touched by malevolent gods were banished to the Isle of the Dead. 
Their still-living corpses were forced across the peninsula, across the three walls, and between the three gates, to continue their unlife upon the hils and dales of the Dead.
Noone returned from the Isle of the Dead. 

Riàrh vowed to journey forth and rescue his lord. He refused to believe that Essiahs, Light of Land, was lost to the Tribe. 
He had himself suffered one of the Wounds of Wisdom (The Three wounds of Wisdon included the Wound to the Body, to the Pride and to the Mind) and returned.  
He journeyed to the gates of the Isle of the Dead, committed his soul to the care of Mithras, and prepared to enter the Underworld.  
There, at the first gate, he met his dead Lord Essiahs. Weakened and dishevelled, Essiahs struggled free of his mental shackles and strode off the peninsula to be met by the loyal warriors of the Debh'Ops.  

